The core dataset on which our data visualization will rely is the [Etymological Wordnet](http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/~demelo/etymwn/) abbreviated Etymwn from here on. This dataset is a great starting point as it describes the etymological relations between words which is the foundation of what we are trying to show.

The Etymwn dataset is built on data available from [Wikitionary](https://www.wiktionary.org/).
The entire dataset compromises about 2.5m unique words which are used in 6m different relations.
Given the nature of the source on which it is built on, we exepct some bias (in completness) towards North American and European languages. This will also be something to show on the data vizualtion: How for example African languages are less documented and hence less represented on the visualization.

In order to better understand the data at hand, we started by doing a simple exploration of it.
The goal is to see how large each one of our main features is and to already gain insights as to what would be particulary interesting to highlight in our visualization.
By "main" features, we mean: the number of unique words per language, the number of languages, how many languages are related to a given language and the etymological tree of a given word.

The dataset has eight different relations possible between two words. We are only intereseted in certain of them, as other might be ambiguous or not add any information to the etymoligcal origins of words (i.e knowing that "nicely" is a derived form of "nice"). By performing this initial filter, we practically cut the dataset into half, having 2.7m relations remaining.

The first insight is about the number of words per language. The dataset only holds words which have an etymological relationship, hence all other words are discarded. On Figure 1, we can see that due to this there are languages that have very few words. This could also be the result of a poorly documented language on wikitionary. Either way, we will have to deal with the tail of the distribution in the visualization.

The depth of the etymological tree for a given word is a very important aspect in our visualization. Depending on this depth the tree might be very large and hence given a sense of clutter which we will have to deal with. Figure 2 illustrates the depth of the tree for 250 words sampled uniformly from the whole dataset. The main insight we gain from this is that these trees are realtively shallow, and will therefore not be computationally difficult to draw. This could potentially allow us to draw trees of multiple words at the same time to gain other insights about the data.

Finally, we explored the relationships for two languages in particular : German and French. Figure 3 illustrates the languages to which these are related (directly or indirectly) by sampling 250 words from the language and constructing their etymological tree. As described in our wireframe, we would have only wanted to plot this feature for directly related languages and not using the full tree as it is currently done in this figure. Given that there are not that many languages related even indirectly to a given language, we could adapt our visualization to show this feature instead or add it in. 

TL;DR:
We use the [Etymological Wordnet](http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/~demelo/etymwn/) dataset. From a simple exploration of it's data we understood that certain languages will have very few words, and that more generally the graph of related lnaguages or the etymoloigcal tress of words are pretty shallow allowing us to potentially draw more of these simultaneously than we had planned.
