As part of the process book, we will now describe and discuss our initial wireframe and the motivations behind each decision that went into making it. Of course, this only serves as a starting point. The closer we will get to a functional prototype, the more we will learn and understand about our dataset and how our visualization shows its features. The future insights we will gain, will therefore most likely change the visulaization from the wireframe we describe here.

There are two main aspects of the data that we want to show. The first one being how languages relate to eachother at etymologically, and the second one is at a finer grain, namely the etymological tree of specific words. This already plays nicely into the "context and detail" principle, since it allows the user to see these two different levels of the data.

The core component of our visualization is a map. This has the added value of giving geographical information for these relationships. It could therefore potentially show how languages moved with time. The other obvious approach would be a graph, however it would make it much harder for the end-user to search for a specific language/word. There are a  few downfalls of the map, namely the fact that certain areas have a much higher density of languages than others, hence making the vizulation possibly cluttered. Additionaly, certain languages may be spoken across several disjoint areas making the georaphical information either hard to read or ambiguous. 
We decided on using a map as it gives an initial structure to the underlying graph and can be removed if the previous mentionned pitfalls, or those to come, are clearly detrimental to the visualization.


As described earlier we want to have have two levels of visualization. We will informally call them the "language level" and the "word level" respectively from now on.
We will now describe them individually and the interactions which allow the user to switch between them. 

For the language level, there will be bundeled edges between languages which are assigned to areas on the map. The edges will represent the relations between words of the linked languages. Above each language area there will be the name of the language assigned to it, it will also highlight the area when hovering on it. These names will be clickable and allow the user to select a language. By selecting a language, a pannel to the left of the map will appear which holds a Sankey diagram of the incoming and outgoing relations (per language) to the selected language. Hovering on this diagram will give additional numerical information to the user. Of course, the underlying map will have all the usual interactions one can expect from a map, namely dragging and zooming.
We have chosen to use bundeled edges as we are only interested in the distribution of relations per language at this level. For the same reason, the Sankey diagram is an appropriate visualization to have. The reason we want both to be shown at the same time is because it will allow the user to isolate a language. It also allows for easier comparisons between languages, because two languages might have similar distributions but could be geographically quite different - which will make it hard for the user to compare them. This Sankey diagram proposes a sort of "standard" representation of these relationships. 

In order to switch to the word level, we are not quite sure what is the best/most approriate interaction. We are currently considering a double-click on the language or the bundeled edges. We could also have an interaction on the Sankey diagram and not only the map.

Once the user entered the word level, he will have the exact same interactions with the map as previously. The languages will still have the same interactions too (highliting areas, etc.). Upon first entering the word level, a random word will be selected. There will now be edges on the map which represent the etymological tree of this word. On the right side, there will be a panel allowing the user to search for a specific word, or pick among suggested words to examin. Whereas on the left there will be some statistics about the etymological trees of the current languague : max depth of trees, mean depth, histogram of related languages. 
