From the previous prototype we already noticed and fixed some of the obvious flaws which are mostly related to usability. We will now take the time to also talk about what our visualizaiton is doing right/wrong more generally. These opinions are based on our own personal views of it aswell as feedback from users which had not heard about this project at all.


The map plays an essential role in locating well-known relations, but it's hard to accurately display data on it without having a bias due to the projection, or other spatial constraints. We initially only wanted the side panels as places to give additional information, but in reality these should be used as the main source for precise measures. They are a core part of the visualizatoin and should therefore be more prominent, or at least more informative. 

A second big change for our visualization, is the transition between words and languages. They initially seem quite closely related, but in reality for our visualization we need another layer in between them. The reason for this is that it's very interesting to inspect all words which are part of relathionship between two given languages. For example, it can be interesting to examine the words which are related to English and Japanese to understand their overall nature. We therefore want to add what we call a "relation level" which allows the user to specifically target an etymological relationship between two languages.

The figure above illustrates the core new direction for our visualization.
On the left side of it, we have illustrated our visualization as a simple state machine between the three levels (word, language and relation). The edges between the states are the aspects of the data we can use to switch between them. 
On the right side, there are extremely simple wireframes of each level.
The language level will have a chord diagram of the largest influences the currently selected lanugage has. Clicking on a specific relation will select it and bring the user to the relation level. The Sankey diagram will still remain here to, and will also have clickable relations. The reasonning behind adding a chord diagram is that it will allow the user to go to relations which do not directly involve the currently selected language. Otherwise he would have to go back to the map and search for the language for which he wants to know a relationship. This is clearly not ideal.
For the word level, we will simply add clickable edges on the word graph, so that the user can go to the language relation which holds that word relation.
The relation level will hold a Sankey diagram as did the language level, but for each language in the relation. It will easily allow the user to navigate to other similar relations aswell as compare how important a language is to another. More importantly, it will also have sampled words from each language which are part of the relation. This will fulfill the initial motivations behind adding the relation level.
